David Schaich (he): ...hit play with that
David Schaich (he): recording.
David Schaich (he): So we can get underway with the second-to-last tutorial for this module in this term. And
David Schaich (he): hopefully you are enjoying being done with
David Schaich (he): the last homework assignment --- only the exam to look forward to. And
David Schaich (he): what we can do in
David Schaich (he): this tutorial, and the final one next week, is look at some of the more
David Schaich (he): meaningful, or robust applications of the statistical physics tools
David Schaich (he): we've been developing.  But before we get into that
we have this
David Schaich (he): 6-digit code
David Schaich (he): for today: 2, 5,
David Schaich (he): 8, 9, 4, 0.
David Schaich (he): And, as always I'll check to see if there are questions about the interacting systems
David Schaich (he): stuff we've been going through in the lectures, or any other questions that have
David Schaich (he): come up about the Debye solid we introduced last week,
David Schaich (he): or for that matter any previous material in the module.
David Schaich (he): Not seeing any,
Yes.
David Schaich (he): mind you.
David Schaich (he): what we looked at last week in the first part of the plan for today
David Schaich (he): here introduced last week, the year
David Schaich (he): so called by a model of
David Schaich (he): he's building on the earlier work with
David Schaich (he): Einstein's model of solids that we
David Schaich (he): talk through the previous week.
David Schaich (he): You can recall the Einstein's model, which
that you
David Schaich (he): picture that you have to put up on the screen.
David Schaich (he): in addition to a solid as a collection of springs holding atoms into place, and predicted that
David Schaich (he): at high temperatures the capacity approaches it constant, which we use for the experiments. But that low temperature is that you can actually manage this exponentially and experimentally.
David Schaich (he): although he actually does vanish. This is he divided by the temperature? So he has
David Schaich (he): temperature goes to 0. This means that C is going to 0
David Schaich (he): linearly in the temperature with a
David Schaich (he): Cqed term
David Schaich (he): coming on top of that. c. Is
David Schaich (he): the coefficient times T. Some other coefficient times to queue that disagrees with the
David Schaich (he): basically because of the
David Schaich (he): you added to that solid
David Schaich (he): for all this, not here to move in a coordinated collective way due to the interactions between them.
David Schaich (he): This is where to buy. hey? What?
David Schaich (he): And introduced a way to
David Schaich (he): treats
David Schaich (he): that interactive behavior as not interactive degrees of freedom
David Schaich (he): some way to transform the complicated system a couple of
David Schaich (he): into effectively gas.
David Schaich (he): not interacting phone numbers. So since particles of sound
you do
David Schaich (he): the equivalent of
David Schaich (he): for acoustic waiting for his.
David Schaich (he): our
David Schaich (he): acoustic ways, that whole sound and the first task.
David Schaich (he): The exercise you had to play with over the past week was to
David Schaich (he): see, yeah.
David Schaich (he): the basic functional form that this modeling predicts in the high, low temperature limits where it can simplify, and we can.
David Schaich (he): compared with that experimental data behind. Some of it works a type of assurance and breaks down at low temperatures.
David Schaich (he): And i'm guessing that this is something you'd like me to go through at least briefly. If you have
David Schaich (he): successfully. it's your extraction, because your horror with a lot of fun, tricks, and simplification sets. Come on that.
David Schaich (he): Let me.
David Schaich (he): and also useful to see the
David Schaich (he): other applications of statistical physics. So are there any objections to that, or I think you would
David Schaich (he): rather do. I should say, you guys. once we get through this talking through the divide solid, and that low temperature, heat, capacity.
David Schaich (he): introduce one final tutorial activity
David Schaich (he): which we'll look at
David Schaich (he): different lattice structures and some of the fun interacting systems and correspond to those with different source of behavior compared to the using model we introduced in the lectures.
David Schaich (he): I think it's still analyze in some cases pretty easily in some cases
David Schaich (he): not 2 weeks away.
David Schaich (he): so that will trying to get to that. By the end of today. I'll see you any. You objections to talking through this phone on gas calculation. Let's
David Schaich (he): spend at least a few minutes on that.
David Schaich (he): And, as hinted in this tutorial activity that it's handed out also on canvas
David Schaich (he): up to cost of factors, like
David Schaich (he): the speed
David Schaich (he): of the waves and number of polarizations that they have.
David Schaich (he): they both behave
David Schaich (he): qualitatively. So in terms of functional form. the same
David Schaich (he): in the particular.
David Schaich (he): Our calculation for you hold on gas when it reproduce the photon gas prediction
David Schaich (he): of the playing spectrum for the which is to say.
David Schaich (he): the average internal energy in the Grand Canonical. On some
David Schaich (he): it's pretty I pretty, but arguing that the chemical potential vanishes because these particles are easy to
David Schaich (he): dropping all kinds of factors and just looking at
David Schaich (he): personality relations. We have the familiar plant spectrum frequency viewed over E to the Beta Hr frequency minus one in the denominator
David Schaich (he): integrating over frequencies. And as we discuss last time
David Schaich (he): integrating from 0, so you
David Schaich (he): very low frequency, with a very long wavelength up to a maximum frequency. it is set by the number of atoms that we have in.
David Schaich (he): So this is the
David Schaich (he): it's maximum frequency corresponding to a wavelength where all the
David Schaich (he): next to each other, or possibly they can
David Schaich (he): very technically correlated.
David Schaich (he): and should say that for you.
David Schaich (he): maximum frequency that we have now is given by
David Schaich (he): the number of atoms that we have per unit length.
David Schaich (he): and as before. we treat this by changing the variables to
David Schaich (he): next, which is Beta H. Bar Omega
David Schaich (he): for each over to you to give a temperature there explicitly. and the the integral over S. They all to the X. Max. That is just proportional to
David Schaich (he): an excellent frequency over the temperature.
David Schaich (he): and what
David Schaich (he): I will do when I write things in this way. So a level of dropping all constant proportionality factors we have.
David Schaich (he): I'll take a queue. Deal, mega that bring in 4 powers of
David Schaich (he): between them.
David Schaich (he): Yeah, the integral from 0 to this maximum of X.
David Schaich (he): What I will do is take all of those Council proportionality factors
David Schaich (he): and call them
David Schaich (he): some simple TV. Here we need to buy a temperature. and that is divided by T. Here the temperature of the system at the upper now.
David Schaich (he): and in particular. This device I for sure. is proportional
David Schaich (he): to that density of
David Schaich (he): to the total number in 3 dimensions divided by it.
David Schaich (he): Yeah overall morning when I brought things wrong both here and last week this cube root is
David Schaich (he): going over at the
David Schaich (he): number and the volume itself to get everything in terms of well, in your density, is It's turns.
David Schaich (he): hey? Objections about that. Sorry I it's sloppy at the end of last week, and just now.
David Schaich (he): So you seem reasonably content to
David Schaich (he): believe that this is the forum for the energy
David Schaich (he): of the phone on the S. And this is basically all we need to extract a high, low temperature, but it's almost by here inspection. So at high temperatures.
David Schaich (he): when t is very large compared to the device temperature
David Schaich (he): that ratio of TV over team is much less than one.
David Schaich (he): and
David Schaich (he): we are only integrating over very small values of X from 0 to something
David Schaich (he): much less than what. So
David Schaich (he): all
David Schaich (he): x within the integral
David Schaich (he): in here replace
David Schaich (he): that e to the X minus one in the denominator. Just by the linear piece X, we have the energy proportional to 2 to the 4,000
David Schaich (he): integral with X cubed over X and X squared Dx, which is proportional to X cubed. Of course.
David Schaich (he): Yeah. we'll go back to 0 and 0 Q to 0 At the orbital we have the over t cube. so that is proportional overall to
David Schaich (he): 4 factors of T, divided by 3 package of T.
David Schaich (he): So we get yeah, one factor
David Schaich (he): of T in there. So the heat capacity.
David Schaich (he): the year derivative of the energy with respect to this is a constant with high temperatures. which
David Schaich (he): is exactly what we've done for in agreement with
David Schaich (he): experiments. and. in fact, if we kept all the cost of actors we would find
David Schaich (he): not only 8 costs, but the same constant as the
David Schaich (he): the 2 models coincide as the temperature increases.
David Schaich (he): so that was the regime where they. the device out that it continues to work.
David Schaich (he): Looks have a choice where this upper bound on the integral.
David Schaich (he): it comes very large.
David Schaich (he): And
David Schaich (he): yeah.
David Schaich (he): the approximated by integrating from 0 to infinity
David Schaich (he): that this integral.
David Schaich (he): when the upper down goes to infinity.
David Schaich (he): turns into that for delicious combination of the functions. and we will see the functions so 6 times highlight. Fourth, over 90. What matters here is that this integral is just a
David Schaich (he): miracle constant. Just have a shirt in the limit of integration drops out
David Schaich (he): when it becomes low
David Schaich (he): one over. So we get that in. To. I question 48. We just have
David Schaich (he): that remaining factor in the form
David Schaich (he): in the heat capacity. It's proportional that he hued. which is exactly one of this room
David Schaich (he): in order to match the experimental data for these minutes.
David Schaich (he): So that's all that is needed for
David Schaich (he): the analysis of the device. Sell it, and it as forecast. Last week.
David Schaich (he): It captures one of the terms
David Schaich (he): describing these data, but not
David Schaich (he): the leading term that intercepts that C over T goes to a constant Alpha
David Schaich (he): Any questions before we go into the second piece. Okay. The activity you had over the past week.
David Schaich (he): You're happy to
David Schaich (he): charge ahead to
David Schaich (he): the
David Schaich (he): final contribution that is coming from
David Schaich (he): the gas of electrons in these metals.
David Schaich (he): So we saw last week that
David Schaich (he): that's right.
David Schaich (he): And then your term in the dec capacity should be associated
David Schaich (he): to the
David Schaich (he): Okay. so to their friends electrons
the the
David Schaich (he): in these metals
David Schaich (he): the behavior of those electrons as a free gas set of temperatures should be the contribution.
David Schaich (he): You are missing
David Schaich (he): that's
David Schaich (he): distinct from the behavior of the
David Schaich (he): to buy a model it is accounting for. and what we've seen.
David Schaich (he): or he's
David Schaich (he): low temperature novelistic for me on.
David Schaich (he): Yes.
David Schaich (he): there's General for a link. And dropping. replacing that one. It causes proportionality
David Schaich (he): over the energy. the fairy function. and then energy to the 3 half hour. And this is
David Schaich (he): rather than approximating that family function as just a step function that cuts off
David Schaich (he): the integral of energy at the chemical potential. We have to
David Schaich (he): keep it it's full 4, so it looks like
David Schaich (he): the occupation level probability. one over E to the
David Schaich (he): Times energy minus chemical potential plus one. So the minus one that we have the phone on the same
David Schaich (he): with it, using the free. That's power. right?
David Schaich (he): And this is
David Schaich (he): not an easy integral to do. A starting point is integrating by parts
David Schaich (he): so schematically. If you Haven't seen this for a while.
David Schaich (he): integrating by parts, changes in the form you Times TV
David Schaich (he): into you and v evaluated at the boundaries of the integral. And then I think there's a minus, for
David Schaich (he): to you
David Schaich (he): we all care about the overall science. Those are.
David Schaich (he): You can profound
David Schaich (he): if we this quickly
David Schaich (he): jump through this calculation, maybe leaving out some intermediate steps for the sake of time
David Schaich (he): that you can.
David Schaich (he): and it's your cell phone on your own.
David Schaich (he): the you that we want.
David Schaich (he): You know, our integral for the
David Schaich (he): internal energy is just
David Schaich (he): that correctly function, one over
David Schaich (he): the exponential factor plus one and Dv.
David Schaich (he): The E.
David Schaich (he): So you time to be with us.
David Schaich (he): The ferry function a number between 0 and one times E to the 5 half power.
David Schaich (he): U. And V. So I believe it of the times.
David Schaich (he): a small number going to. So he goes to 0. We have e times
David Schaich (he): your number goes to 0
David Schaich (he): when the energy goes to infinity.
David Schaich (he): This function goes to 0 exponentially quickly that overwhelms the fact that
David Schaich (he): from the
David Schaich (he): so they this is 0. In this case we just end up with
David Schaich (he): the the energy proportional to
David Schaich (he): the integral of that
David Schaich (he): the do you? So e to the 5 Hands. the e. and then i'll keep that minus sign just right. Do you as
David Schaich (he): the derivative of that with respect to
David Schaich (he): differential.
David Schaich (he): where
David Schaich (he): the derivative of the
David Schaich (he): function. you know that is e to the
David Schaich (he): beta chemical potential plus one.
David Schaich (he): and making our usual a slightly different substitution. X's.
David Schaich (he): the factor in that exponential.
David Schaich (he): We get one over you to the X plus 120 squared.
David Schaich (he): we have
David Schaich (he): additional. They go from the argument of the exponential
David Schaich (he): which
David Schaich (he): we can rearrange
David Schaich (he): all of that on the screen. and.
David Schaich (he): like the energy that we have proportional to integral. Now from X 0 to infinity.
David Schaich (he): Sorry, this is still going to be
David Schaich (he): the energy from 0 to.
David Schaich (he): And
David Schaich (he): although those 2 quantities are related by that relation.
David Schaich (he): They're proportional to each other. With this shift in data and this factor out beta from the chain rule, I can move into
David Schaich (he): the differential factor. And now change variables to X to that
David Schaich (he): when he is 0.
David Schaich (he): X is
David Schaich (he): minus a of you
David Schaich (he): When you go to the X goes to infinity.
David Schaich (he): Yes.
David Schaich (he): still have.
David Schaich (he): The energy is a function of X now integral over X.
David Schaich (he): And you, too.
David Schaich (he): the presence of X within that energy term, as well as this ratio of exponential factors.
David Schaich (he): This remains a tricky integral to do.
David Schaich (he): We can get some kind of to which is by plotting it
David Schaich (he): versus
David Schaich (he): no here, since it's either the x over the X plus one squared it's dropping that
David Schaich (he): factor out the energy that should be.
David Schaich (he): It's a small correction to exponentials.
It's
David Schaich (he): clear at this combination of exponentials is suppressed.
David Schaich (he): We're both large and small. X. So this gives us the freedom
David Schaich (he): to extend
David Schaich (he): the integral from minus infinity to infinity often simpler than happy.
David Schaich (he): Let's see. and
David Schaich (he): we can justify the exponential suppression just by looking at that limit where X is a very negative number. So
David Schaich (he): So in that regime you the X over
David Schaich (he): into the X plus one squared
David Schaich (he): access.
David Schaich (he): large and magazine and negative. Those exponential factors are very small. The denominator is approximately
David Schaich (he): Yeah.
David Schaich (he): This
David Schaich (he): itself, as I said. the exponential of the right negative number is much less than one. What you're using exponentially suppressed
David Schaich (he): correction to the calculation, just by extending the you can to a similar argument for hey?
David Schaich (he): Positive numbers. For now the exponential.
David Schaich (he): it's
David Schaich (he): one over 80 X. Whatever something on her, she is very small.
David Schaich (he): and even with the
David Schaich (he): even the 5 have power in there, we can be confident that the
David Schaich (he): integrated is
David Schaich (he): sharply peaked around it.
David Schaich (he): X equals 0, which corresponds
David Schaich (he): it's still on the screen when X is 0 energy.
David Schaich (he): So this is where
David Schaich (he): you, a full Hitler expansion of the energy as a function of X
David Schaich (he): and
David Schaich (he): E equals
David Schaich (he): next just the derivative.
David Schaich (he): Which is either the 3 has evaluated as you.
David Schaich (he): I have leaves. Use the one half
David Schaich (he): which we can. Now this gives us a way to
David Schaich (he): express the full, integral consistently in terms of X. Instead of mixing X and the energy
David Schaich (he): that you, the 5 hands. That's 5 hands.
David Schaich (he): So e minus mu is x over beta, or x times t.
The 3 have since. Similarly.
David Schaich (he): this next term
David Schaich (he): is x t squared one half back to review.
David Schaich (he): So just looking at
David Schaich (he): these first 3 terms
David Schaich (he): in the it will have some cost to a
David Schaich (he): you get to roll. Yes. the x plus one square.
David Schaich (he): with nothing else. Just another view that we absorbed into a
David Schaich (he): the second term. Here's us x times t times e to the x yes, plus one squared.
David Schaich (he): and then you see. pull it out.
David Schaich (he): X squared e to the X
David Schaich (he): in the X plus one squared. Dx. Those integrals are all Google. Sorry. There they are
David Schaich (he): on the screen before you go.
David Schaich (he): Those integrals are all
David Schaich (he): doable without too much effort.
David Schaich (he): But what we can see is that if we take the derivative of the energy with respect to the temperature. this first term will
David Schaich (he): healthy keep capacity. There is no dependence on the temperature. It is
David Schaich (he): that does not contribute to the capacity, for after the second integral
David Schaich (he): is integrating an up function, so from
David Schaich (he): minus
David Schaich (he): infinity to 0, the integrand is equal and opposite to its value from 0 to plus infinity over overall.
David Schaich (he): That correct yeah
David Schaich (he): goes to 0. And what we are finally left with is this.
David Schaich (he): this integral which
David Schaich (he): it's great to some numerical. and in the end anything that
David Schaich (he): derivative just this term proportional to the derivative of t squared with respect to T.
David Schaich (he): So that is how the device solid works to
David Schaich (he): reproduce experimental data and overcome that the shortcomings
David Schaich (he): of the I just don't know
David Schaich (he): It's a good place to policy. If there are questions
David Schaich (he): about
David Schaich (he): what we've gone through, looking at. hey?
David Schaich (he): Very accurate description of
David Schaich (he): 10 to the power 23 atoms that are
David Schaich (he): digging around in these materials along with a gas of electron that's floating amongst them at no temperatures.
David Schaich (he): It's an extraordinarily complicated system. Yeah. We have been able to
David Schaich (he): describe very accurately in terms of
David Schaich (he): simple linear and human functions.
David Schaich (he): Just from what we've dealt with to phone gases.
David Schaich (he): I hope it this sort of
David Schaich (he): direct application to the full application.
David Schaich (he): something enjoyable that
David Schaich (he): it's nice to see you. We're able to do this after just here Single module through statistical tools. 2
David Schaich (he): treats as many other wide degrees of freedom
David Schaich (he): and get
David Schaich (he): emergence. Collective behavior
David Schaich (he): predicted very accurate. When you call that
David Schaich (he): so
David Schaich (he): little over halfway through one like tutorials a day. So it's a good time to terms, you will next standard final activity.
David Schaich (he): which we have a mix of
David Schaich (he): easy things to think about, and also a we're challenging computation. If you you might have a taste for
David Schaich (he): connecting
David Schaich (he): the behavior of these statistical systems to
David Schaich (he): to real materials which often have structures of their atoms and voices more complicated
David Schaich (he): the simple cubic case that we are looking at in the lecture.
David Schaich (he): So.
David Schaich (he): as always, this tutorial activities on the camera site. If you don't want to rely on them. What time Talking to a project.
David Schaich (he): Sure help, you, sir. Fantastic man!
David Schaich (he): I can't the site on that
David Schaich (he): any device
David Schaich (he): so in lecture we've been looking at d-dimensional
David Schaich (he): square lattice. one on the left. where you see each site has
David Schaich (he): in 2 dimensions for nearest neighbors.
David Schaich (he): so obvious by inspection
David Schaich (he): the term year 2.
David Schaich (he): Look at these lasses, so
David Schaich (he): this cubic classes, and
David Schaich (he): the square lattice and 2D. And the number of nearest neighbors. so
David Schaich (he): often called in sort of more full discussions. this coordination number.
David Schaich (he): So that is where there is this very regular structure, and every
David Schaich (he): sites has a fixed number of
David Schaich (he): nearest neighbors. All the
David Schaich (he): coordination number
David Schaich (he): to the for these cubic lattices that we put that in the lecture
here for you.
David Schaich (he): You've seen the the number of links per site, the coordination number.
David Schaich (he): It's 2D, 2 dimensions.
David Schaich (he): It goes to the 4 that we just through here.
David Schaich (he): and we can compress this with a few other simple, regular lattice structure is that
David Schaich (he): completely fill the 2 dimensional plane
David Schaich (he): seen before.
David Schaich (he): Those are going here.
David Schaich (he): First of all, it's called
David Schaich (he): where we can count that
David Schaich (he): each site has 3 nearest neighbors.
David Schaich (he): so it's to be heightened. Let us
David Schaich (he): it also be generalized to higher dimensions, harder to picture, which is
David Schaich (he): why the picture is not
David Schaich (he): tutorial activity.
David Schaich (he): but to the coordination number
David Schaich (he): has a simple relation to.
David Schaich (he): Did you mention elevated?
David Schaich (he): It's just d plus one, which in 2 dimensions that those 3 that we accounted in here.
David Schaich (he): There's a story that I can tell about the higher dimensional versions of this honeycomb that is being called hyper dynamic lattices.
David Schaich (he): just because of the
David Schaich (he): I can structure that comes out
David Schaich (he): of the centers
David Schaich (he): of the faces in this platform. Not to It's a fun bit of. Let us transport it
David Schaich (he): as we go through things.
David Schaich (he): Let's instead move on to consider what happens if we
David Schaich (he): all of the centerpoints in the
David Schaich (he): and you all mixed up between the centers with your the existing. So it's
David Schaich (he): and the centers.
David Schaich (he): These hexagons get broken up into collections of 6 triangles. that this exactly what's wrong with that in this room those plots, the triangular lattice
David Schaich (he): I can see.
David Schaich (he): actually gone still hiding in there from collections of 6 of the triangles.
David Schaich (he): So it is super cell
David Schaich (he): build out of the
David Schaich (he): the higher dimensional generalization of
I know that this is called
David Schaich (he): 86,
David Schaich (he): many fun properties, of those things, like the maximum efficiency for sear hacking
David Schaich (he): as well as
David Schaich (he): connections to
David Schaich (he): super symmetry.
David Schaich (he): But stay at the basic well, for now the coordination number
David Schaich (he): here is 6 and 2 dimensions.
David Schaich (he): a general license to twice that coordination. So 2 times the dimensionality plus one. it's a 6 when the equals 2,
David Schaich (he): so these 3 lattice structures are very clearly distinguished by the number of nearest neighbors. Some more pictures at the bottom of this page are showing.
David Schaich (he): This is the
David Schaich (he): version of the
David Schaich (he): So it's a 3.
David Schaich (he): Also notice the by a central cubic class or
David Schaich (he): Ecc. And we can account.
David Schaich (he): when D equals 3 or a triangle lattice in 3 dimensions. We have 2 times 4. It gives 8 inverse neighbors for and for this purple site that is
David Schaich (he): in the center of a few that it's kind of
David Schaich (he): properly projected the year. James. There's neighbors that it has
David Schaich (he): label and number from one to 8
David Schaich (he): 8 quarters of the unit queue.
David Schaich (he): What other
David Schaich (he): interesting way to structure. to mention, at least in 2D.
David Schaich (he): So not trying to generalize the so-called to go away that it's not higher dimensions
David Schaich (he): I believe people may come from a Japanese. We're related to what basket we then this sort of structure shows up in
David Schaich (he): textiles, and those with the patterns
David Schaich (he): each side has
David Schaich (he): when you're
David Schaich (he): 3
David Schaich (he): rotated as we go from one site to the next. I like the
David Schaich (he): that we may be more familiar with.
David Schaich (he): but here
David Schaich (he): the Us. We have a coordination number of 4, so the same number of nearest neighbors as the square, we but clearly by inspection.
David Schaich (he): This is a distinct latter structure from
David Schaich (he): the square lattice.
David Schaich (he): despite the same number of years later. So the coordination number is not everything. but it is something and
David Schaich (he): something that's
David Schaich (he): on. The behavior of
David Schaich (he): systems of Adams model is interacting with live on the
David Schaich (he): So if we
David Schaich (he): take our using model and
David Schaich (he): generalize it to have and energy.
David Schaich (he): How's the coefficient J. In front of the
David Schaich (he): some over the years that are interacting in this way.
David Schaich (he): Put it in the field term for convenience and for the time being, just to turn it off
David Schaich (he): that external magnetic field and look at only the interactions. This J. Is the way of parameters in the strength of those interactions.
David Schaich (he): But what is interesting is what happens. If Jay changes sign. we could have
David Schaich (he): a positive interaction, strength, or a negative interruptive strength equally well in this expression.
David Schaich (he): and
David Schaich (he): a question for you to consider a over the next
David Schaich (he): 10 min or so. the coming weekend back to talk through the
David Schaich (he): the results next Thursday tutorial.
David Schaich (he): What are the ground States out of this generalized using model. one or 2 cases of J greater than 0, less than 0.
David Schaich (he): When the U.S.A. Repairs in this, some over day in K. I come in from
David Schaich (he): square honeycomb
David Schaich (he): or triangular
David Schaich (he): lattice structures.
David Schaich (he): So this is
David Schaich (he): ideally, I conceptual question that you should be able to. I have an argument for the form of the ground state.
David Schaich (he): just from the inspection of
David Schaich (he): if I have a series and the interacting
David Schaich (he): terms defining the using model. So without doing any detail that practical calculation.
David Schaich (he): And
David Schaich (he): is it for the follow up to that? Yes.
David Schaich (he): Are there
David Schaich (he): any potential order parameters
David Schaich (he): that would distinguish those ground States from the disorder state that we expect.
David Schaich (he): It's high temperature for the using model
David Schaich (he): on any of these lattice structures where the energy becomes essentially negative compared to
David Schaich (he): the temperature.
David Schaich (he): And i'm just thinking whether i'm up to hold up the the last part. This activity, which is it? Much more complicated
David Schaich (he): set of questions. So you've got this question about it's over parameters
David Schaich (he): something. You can
David Schaich (he): look at the system and try to
David Schaich (he): answer that just by inspection
David Schaich (he): there is another generalization of lattices that we can do. and I think I will just read this problem. You can read it. I didn't really know about it in the activity. just in case any of you are
David Schaich (he): curious to play with. Let's call this complete graph
David Schaich (he): the fully connected by this, whatever. Every single site is a nearest neighbor of every other site
David Schaich (he): here. So there are links which are technically the same length.
David Schaich (he): this 2 dimensional projection links between every single pair of sites.
David Schaich (he): So it defines.
David Schaich (he): I like to call it fully connected with us. What shows up in
David Schaich (he): Wikipedia and some other literature as a complete graph.
David Schaich (he): Yes.
David Schaich (he): that's the name suggests applications to
David Schaich (he): graph theory and networks.
David Schaich (he): and if we consider it
David Schaich (he): in generalization of the using model that's defined on this fully connected like this.
David Schaich (he): because
David Schaich (he): all sites are connected to all the others that some over links, just because they sum over all of the sex themselves
David Schaich (he): with J. Less than K. To avoid all accounting.
David Schaich (he): you can
David Schaich (he): equally well through the bill. some overall different pairs of sites. That's
David Schaich (he): and this is a system of thanks to the structure of that fully connected lattice that can be solved exactly. I'm like easy model
on it.
David Schaich (he): Two-dimensional cubic lattices that we're doing in the lectures.
David Schaich (he): So
David Schaich (he): the exact solution
David Schaich (he): gives a closed form analytic expression
David Schaich (he): for the partition function that corresponds to this energy.
David Schaich (he): I should mention that Peter
David Schaich (he): Inclusion of the number of sites in the Co. In the interaction strength. What this lattice is
David Schaich (he): in there, just to ensure that the energy per site remains finite as and goes to infinity in that thermodynamic moment that we've been discussing in the lectures and
David Schaich (he): actually sold it.
David Schaich (he): The system is
David Schaich (he): trickier. It's a more substantial calculation that
David Schaich (he): some of you may want to play with over the coming week. We
David Schaich (he): probably take a report at how that calculation goes next Thursday, but I just mentioned that it is the way it is to work that was awarded the 2021 Nobel prize
David Schaich (he): perfect. So not this past year year before that
David Schaich (he): Georgio crazy received part of the Nobel Prize for solving
David Schaich (he): similar systems like this. You know the spin classes.
David Schaich (he): but the interactions frame is actually allowed to vary from link to link at the different values of the interactions transport link
David Schaich (he): rather than being a constant or drawing from the Gaussian distribution.
David Schaich (he): That is too wrap up with the hints, for
David Schaich (he): there's a few. Once we take this calculation. Hey? Here
David Schaich (he): good way to approach it is to
David Schaich (he): organize things as
David Schaich (he): is so over the values of the magnetization
David Schaich (he): in that partition function. so is that we're given by some of the organization from minus one up to one.
David Schaich (he): some expression, and when it is large we got us to the organization in that range are very smoothly varying and put together.
David Schaich (he): The process of this has an integral over the magnetization.
David Schaich (he): So why is we express this energy
David Schaich (he): in terms of the organization
David Schaich (he): itself to go into the exponential factor that shows up in the partition function. So
David Schaich (he): that will
David Schaich (he): that to be left for you to
David Schaich (he): I with that would be coming me run out of time
David Schaich (he): for today. Are there
David Schaich (he): final questions before we wrap up
David Schaich (he): about
David Schaich (he): either the simple conceptual
David Schaich (he): questions for this last activity, or the more substantial solution
David Schaich (he): of the fully connected partition publishing.
David Schaich (he): I don't see any. So we should
David Schaich (he): good luck attempting that analysis.
David Schaich (he): and see you again
David Schaich (he): again. Not Monday. Another rank holiday, but a Tuesday afternoon. Get back into more approximate solutions for easy model. A simple cubic lattice. something that
David Schaich (he): cancel exactly depending on. Did you mention healthy.